SQUID PROXY SERVER 

A proxy server is a server on my netwrok that other computers connect to to go out on the internet. They were created before NAT. With NAT each
computer does not need a proxy server but it can goes out directly to the internet. 

Squid proxy server is simply an open-source version that can be installed on a Linux server. 
Proxy server can be usefult todays because they can have a lot of different features for our network. 

The main feature a proxy server can gives you is CACHE
Another really important feature is ACL (access control list). Image having one proxy server connected to different empolyees, you want to select
which sites they want to access. 

Another feature really useful (If you don't have a hotspot) is to configure a proxy server at your home and then bypass a webfilter by connecting
to the proxy at your home. 
Then you configure your browser (internet explorer to use that proxy to connect to the outside. ). My proxy server will be an IP address 192.168.1.1
Then it has a port (3128, which is the default one).

There is also something called a transparent proxy server. A transparent proxy server means that there is no configuration that the end user 
needs to do, in this case the proxy server act as a default gateway .

So back to squid. 
The most importat things you need to do in every Linux distribution is:
- Install squid
- Being able to edit the squid.conf file (this can change from one Linux distribution to another )
- Restart squid proxy server

On debian
$ apt install squid

$ vi /etc/squid3/squid.conf 

The squid configuration file is overwhelming but in general they piled the man page and the configuration file and did a nasty mash into one obnoxiously 
long file. 
Now you configure your browser to use this proxy to connect to the internet.
Now if you try tO access for example cnn.com you receive an access denied error. You need to change the squid configuration file 
to be able to access cnn.com.

To do this you have to add a new http_access. You have to look for 
    http_access deny all

And you have to add rules ABOVE this one.

